# Static Context

## Mastermind Sprig

Many of the utility functions provided come from sprig, a third-party library of Go template functions.
For more information, see [Sprig Function Documentation](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/) on the sprig website.

## Namespace
```go
func Namespace() string
```
Namespace returns the Kubernetes namespace that the application belongs to.
```yaml
'{{repl Namespace}}'
```

## KubeSeal
```go
func KubeSeal(certData string, namespace string, name string, value string) string
```

## HumanSize
```go
func HumanSize(size interface{}) string
```
HumanSize returns a human-readable approximation of a size in bytes capped at 4 valid numbers (eg. "2.746 MB", "796 KB").
The size must be a integer or floating point number.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "min_size_bytes" | HumanSize }}'
```

## Now
```go
func Now() string
```
Returns the current timestamp as an RFC3339 formatted string.
```yaml
'{{repl Now }}'
```

## NowFmt
```go
func NowFmt(format string) string
```
Returns the current timestamp as a formatted string.
For information about Go time formatting guidelines, see [Constants](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#pkg-constants) in the Go documentation.
```yaml
'{{repl NowFmt "20060102" }}'
```

## ToLower
```go
func ToLower(stringToAlter string) string
```
Returns the string, in lowercase.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "company_name" | ToLower }}'
```

## ToUpper
```go
func ToUpper(stringToAlter string) string
```
Returns the string, in uppercase.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "company_name" | ToUpper }}'
```

## TrimSpace
```go
func TrimSpace(s string) string
```
Trim returns a string with all leading and trailing spaces removed.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "str_value" | TrimSpace }}'
```

## Trim
```go
func Trim(s string, args ...string) string
```
Trim returns a string with all leading and trailing string contained in the optional args removed (default space).
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "str_value" | Trim " " "." }}'
```

## UrlEncode
```go
func UrlEncode(stringToEncode string) string
```
Returns the string, url encoded.
Equivalent to the `QueryEscape` function within the golang `net/url` library. For more information, see [func QueryEscape](https://godoc.org/net/url#QueryEscape) in the Go documentation.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "smtp_email" | UrlEncode }}:{{repl ConfigOption "smtp_password" | UrlEncode }}@smtp.example.com:587'
```

## UrlPathEscape
```go
func UrlPathEscape(stringToEncode string) string
```
Returns the string, url *path* encoded.
Equivalent to the `PathEscape` function within the golang `net/url` library. For more information, see [func PathEscape](https://godoc.org/net/url#PathEscape) in the Go documentation.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "smtp_email" | UrlPathEscape }}:{{repl ConfigOption "smtp_password" | UrlPathEscape }}@smtp.example.com:587'
```

## Base64Encode
```go
func Base64Encode(stringToEncode string) string
```
Returns a Base64 encoded string.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "name" | Base64Encode }}'
```

## Base64Decode
```go
func Base64Decode(stringToDecode string) string
```
Returns decoded string from a Base64 stored value.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "base_64_encoded_name" | Base64Decode }}'
```

## Split
```go
func Split(s string, sep string) []string
```
Split slices s into all substrings separated by sep and returns an array of the substrings between those separators.
```yaml
'{{repl Split "A,B,C" "," }}'
```

Combining `Split` and `index`:
Assuming the `github_url` param is set to `https://github.mycorp.internal:3131`, the following would set
`GITHUB_HOSTNAME` to `github.mycorp.internal`.
```yaml
'{{repl index (Split (index (Split (ConfigOption "github_url") "/") 2) ":") 0}}'
```

## RandomString
```go
func RandomString(length uint64, providedCharset ...string) string
```
Returns a random string with the desired length and charset.
Provided charsets must be Perl formatted and match individual characters.
If no charset is provided, `[_A-Za-z0-9]` will be used.

#### Examples

The following example generates a 64-character random string:

```yaml
'{{repl RandomString 64}}'
```
The following example generates a 64-character random string that contains `a`s and `b`s:

```yaml
'{{repl RandomString 64 "[ab]" }}'
```

#### Generating Persistent and Ephemeral Strings

When you assign the RandomString template function to a `value` key in the Config custom resource, you can use the `hidden` and `readonly` properties to control the behavior of the RandomString function each time it is called. The RandomString template function is called each time the user deploys a change to the configuration settings for the application.

Depending on if the `hidden` and `readonly` properties are `true` or `false`, the random string generated by a RandomString template function in a `value` key is either ephemeral or persistent between configuration changes:

* **Ephemeral**: The value of the random string _changes_ when the user deploys a change to the configuration settings for the application.
* **Persistent**: The value of the random string does _not_ change when the user deploys a change to the configuration settings for the application.

For more information about these properties, see [`hidden`](custom-resource-config#hidden) and [`readonly`](custom-resource-config#readonly) in _Config_.

:::note
If you assign the RandomString template function to a `default` key in the Config custom resource rather than a `value` key, then the `hidden` and `readonly` properties do _not_ affect the behavior of the RandomString template function. For more information about the behavior of the `default` key in the Config custom resource, see [`default` and `value`](custom-resource-config#default-and-value) in _Config_.
:::

The following table describes the behavior of the RandomString template function when it is assigned to a `value` key in the Config custom resource and the `hidden` and `readonly` properties are `true` or `false`: 

<table>
  <tr>
    <th width="15%">readonly</th>
    <th width="15%">hidden</th>
    <th width="15%">Outcome</th>
    <th width="55%">Use Case</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Persistent</td>
    <td>
      <p>Set <code>readonly</code> to <code>false</code> and <code>hidden</code> to <code>true</code> if:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The random string must <em>not</em> change each time the user deploys a change to the application's configuration settings.</li>
        <li>The user does <em>not</em> need to see or change, or must be prevented from seeing or changing, the value of the random string.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>Ephemeral</td>
    <td>
      <p>Set <code>readonly</code> to <code>true</code> and <code>hidden</code> to <code>false</code> if:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The random string <em>must</em> change each time the user deploys a change to the application's configuration settings.</li>
        <li>The user does <em>not</em> need to change, or must be prevented from changing, the value of the random string.</li>
        <li>The user <em>must</em> be able to see the value of the random string.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>Ephemeral</td>
    <td>
      <p>Set <code>readonly</code> to <code>true</code> and <code>hidden</code> to <code>true</code> if:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The random string <em>must</em> change each time the user deploys a change to the application's configuration settings.</li>
        <li>The user does <em>not</em> need to see or change, or must be preventing from seeing or changing, the value of the random string.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>Persistent</td>
    <td>
      <p>Set <code>readonly</code> to <code>false</code> and <code>hidden</code> to <code>false</code> if:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The random string must <em>not</em> change each time the user deploys a change to the application's configuration settings.</li>
        <li>The user <em>must</em> be able to see and change the value of the random string.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>For example, set both <code>readonly</code> and <code>hidden</code> to <code>false</code> to generate a random password that users must be able to see and then change to a different value that they choose.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Add
```go
func Add(x interface{}, y interface{}) interface{}
```
Adds x and y.

If at least one of the operands is a floating point number, the result will be a floating point number.

If both operands are integers, the result will be an integer.
```yaml
'{{repl Add (ConfigOption "maximum_users") 1}}'
```

## Sub
```go
func Sub(x interface{}, y interface{}) interface{}
```
Subtracts y from x.

If at least one of the operands is a floating point number, the result will be a floating point number.

If both operands are integers, the result will be an integer.
```yaml
'{{repl Sub (ConfigOption "maximum_users") 1}}'
```

## Mult
```go
func Mult(x interface{}, y interface{}) interface{}
```
Multiplies x and y.

Both operands must be either an integer or a floating point number.

If at least one of the operands is a floating point number, the result will be a floating point number.

If both operands are integers, the result will be an integer.
```yaml
'{{repl Mult (NodePrivateIPAddressAll "DB" "redis" | len) 2}}'
```

If a template function returns a string, the value must be converted to an integer or a floating point number first:
```yaml
'{{repl Mult (ConfigOption "session_cookie_age" | ParseInt) 86400}}'
```

## Div
```go
func Div(x interface{}, y interface{}) interface{}
```
Divides x by y.

If at least one of the operands is a floating point number, the result will be a floating point number.

If both operands are integers, the result will be an integer and will be rounded down.
```yaml
'{{repl Div (ConfigOption "maximum_users") 2.0}}'
```

## ParseBool
```go
func ParseBool(str string) bool
```
ParseBool returns the boolean value represented by the string.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "str_value" | ParseBool }}'
```

## ParseFloat
```go
func ParseFloat(str string) float64
```
ParseFloat returns the float value represented by the string.
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "str_value" | ParseFloat }}'
```

## ParseInt
```go
func ParseInt(str string, args ...int) int64
```
ParseInt returns the integer value represented by the string with optional base (default 10).
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "str_value" | ParseInt }}'
```

## ParseUint
```go
func ParseUint(str string, args ...int) uint64
```
ParseUint returns the unsigned integer value represented by the string with optional base (default 10).
```yaml
'{{repl ConfigOption "str_value" | ParseUint }}'
```

## TLSCert

**Deprecation Notice**: This function has been superseded in the Replicated app manager v1.26.0 by the sprig crypto functions. For more information, see [Example: Using Variables to Generate TLS Certificates and Keys](template-functions-config-context#tls-cert-example) in _Config Context_. For more information about the sprig crypto function, see [Cryptographic and Security Functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html) in the sprig documentation.

```go
func TLSCert(certName string, cn string, ips []interface{}, alternateDNS []interface{}, daysValid int) string
```
TLSCert generates and returns a self-signed certificate identified by `certName`.  
The first parameter can be used in the `TLSKey` function to retrieve the matching key.

TLSCert takes the following parameters
- Unique name that identifies the certificate.  
This is a not a part of the returned certificate.
- Subject’s common name (cn)
- Optional list of IPs; may be nil
- Optional list of alternate DNS names; may be nil
- Cert validity duration in days
```yaml
repl{{ TLSCert "my_custom_cert" "foo.com" (list "10.0.0.1" "10.0.0.2") (list "bar.com" "bat.com") 365 }}
```

## TLSKey

**Deprecation Notice**: This function has been superseded in the app manager v1.26.0 by the sprig crypto functions. For more information, see [Example: Using Variables to Generate TLS Certificates and Keys](template-functions-config-context#tls-cert-example) in _Config Context_. For more information about the sprig crypto function, see [Cryptographic and Security Functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html) in the sprig documentation.

```go
func TLSKey(certName string, cn string, ips []interface{}, alternateDNS []interface{}, daysValid int) string
```
TLSKey returns the key that matches the certificate identified by `certName`.  
The rest of the arguments are the same as in `TLSCert` and, if specified, must have the same values.  
If they are omitted and the certificate with this name does not exist, the function will return an empty string.
```yaml
repl{{ TLSKey "my_custom_cert" "foo.com" (list "10.0.0.1" "10.0.0.2") (list "bar.com" "bat.com") 365 }}
```

## TLSCACert

**Deprecation Notice**: This function has been superseded in the app manager v1.26.0 by the sprig crypto functions. For more information, see [Example: Using Variables to Generate TLS Certificates and Keys](template-functions-config-context#tls-cert-example) in _Config Context_. For more information about the sprig crypto function, see [Cryptographic and Security Functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html) in the sprig documentation.


```go
func TLSCACert(caName string, daysValid int) string
```
TLSCACert generates and returns a CA certificate that can be used as a CA to sign other certificates.

TLSCACert takes the following parameters
- Subject’s common name (cn)
- Cert validity duration in days
```yaml
repl{{ TLSCACert "foo.com" 365 }}
```

## TLSCertFromCA

**Deprecation Notice**: This function has been superseded in the app manager v1.26.0 by the sprig crypto functions. For more information, see [Example: Using Variables to Generate TLS Certificates and Keys](template-functions-config-context#tls-cert-example) in _Config Context_. For more information about the sprig crypto function, see [Cryptographic and Security Functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html) in the sprig documentation.

```go
func TLSCertFromCA(caName string, certName string, cn string, ips []interface{}, alternateDNS []interface{}, daysValid int) string
```
TLSCertFromCA generates and returns a certificate signed by the CA identified by `caName`.  
The rest of the arguments are the same as in `TLSCert`.
```yaml
repl{{ TLSCertFromCA "foo.com" "my_custom_cert" "bar.com" (list "10.0.0.1" "10.0.0.2") (list "bar.com" "bat.com") 365 }}
```

## TLSKeyFromCA

**Deprecation Notice**: This function has been superseded in the app manager v1.26.0 by the sprig crypto functions. For more information, see [Example: Using Variables to Generate TLS Certificates and Keys](template-functions-config-context#tls-cert-example) in _Config Context_. For more information about the sprig crypto function, see [Cryptographic and Security Functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html) in the sprig documentation.

```go
func TLSKeyFromCA(caName string, certName string, cn string, ips []interface{}, alternateDNS []interface{}, daysValid int) string
```
TLSKeyFromCA generates and returns a key that matches the certificate returned by `TLSCertFromCA`.  
The arguments are the same as in `TLSCertFromCA` and their values must match.
```yaml
repl{{ TLSKeyFromCA "foo.com" "my_custom_cert" "bar.com" (list "10.0.0.1" "10.0.0.2") (list "bar.com" "bat.com") 365 }}
```

## IsKurl
```go
func IsKurl() bool
```
IsKurl returns true if running within a kurl-based installation.
```yaml
repl{{ IsKurl }}
```

## Distribution
```go
func Distribution() string
```
Distribution returns the Kubernetes distribution detected. The possible return values are:
* microk8s      
* dockerDesktop
* eks           
* gke           
* digitalOcean  
* openShift     
* kurl          
* aks           
* ibm           
* minikube      
* rke2          
* k3s  

```yaml
repl{{ Distribution }}
```

## NodeCount
```go
func NodeCount() int
```
NodeCount returns the number of nodes detected within the Kubernetes cluster.
```yaml
repl{{ NodeCount }}
```

## HTTPSProxy
```go
func HTTPSProxy() string
```
HTTPSProxy returns the address of the proxy that the Replicated admin console is configured to use.
```yaml
repl{{ HTTPSProxy }}
```

## HTTPProxy
```go
func HTTPProxy() string
```
HTTPProxy returns the address of the proxy that the Replicated admin console is configured to use.
```yaml
repl{{ HTTPProxy }}
```

## NoProxy
```go
func NoProxy() string
```
NoProxy returns the comma-separated list of no-proxy addresses that the admin console is configured to use.
```yaml
repl{{ NoProxy }}
```

## KotsVersion
```go
func KotsVersion() string
```

KotsVersion returns the current version of the app manager. **Note**: The app manager is based on the KOTS open source project. The current KOTS version is the same as the current app manager version.

```yaml
repl{{ KotsVersion }}
```

You can compare the KOTS version as follows:
```yaml
repl{{KotsVersion | semverCompare ">= 1.19"}}
```

This returns `true` if the KOTS version is greater than or equal to `1.19`.

For more complex comparisons, see [Semantic Version Functions](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/semver.html) in the sprig documentation.

## YamlEscape
```go
func YamlEscape(input string) string
```

YamlEscape returns an escaped and quoted version of the input string, suitable for use within a YAML document.
This can be useful when dealing with user-uploaded files that may include null bytes and other nonprintable characters. For more information about printable characters, see [Character Set](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#51-character-set) in the YAML documentation.

```yaml
repl{{ ConfigOptionData "my_file_upload" | YamlEscape }}
```

## KubernetesVersion

> Introduced in Replicated app manager v1.92.0

```go
func KubernetesVersion() string
```

KubernetesVersion returns the Kubernetes server version.

```yaml
repl{{ KubernetesVersion }}
```

You can compare the Kubernetes version as follows:
```yaml
repl{{KubernetesVersion | semverCompare ">= 1.19"}}
```

This returns `true` if  the Kubernetes version is greater than or equal to `1.19`.

For more complex comparisons, see [Semantic Version Functions](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/semver.html) in the sprig documentation.

## KubernetesMajorVersion

> Introduced in Replicated app manager v1.92.0

```go
func KubernetesMajorVersion() string
```

KubernetesMajorVersion returns the Kubernetes server *major* version.

```yaml
repl{{ KubernetesMajorVersion }}
```

You can compare the Kubernetes major version as follows:
```yaml
repl{{lt (KubernetesMajorVersion | ParseInt) 2 }}
```

This returns `true` if the Kubernetes major version is less than `2`.

## KubernetesMinorVersion

> Introduced in Replicated app manager v1.92.0

```go
func KubernetesMinorVersion() string
```

KubernetesMinorVersion returns the Kubernetes server *minor* version.

```yaml
repl{{ KubernetesMinorVersion }}
```

You can compare the Kubernetes minor version as follows:
```yaml
repl{{gt (KubernetesMinorVersion | ParseInt) 19 }}
```

This returns `true` if the Kubernetes minor version is greater than `19`.
